in Australia scientists are trying to
increase marsupial numbers using
artificial insemination or AI they've
started with koalas because they're easy
to handle and breed well they hope to
perfect the methods to help rare
marsupials in the wild like grim P the
hairy nosed wombat so how do you do
AI well first you have to collect some
sperm and to do that you go to the Lone
Pine Koala Sanctuary in Brisbane what
you're witnessing here is the courtship
behavior of Australia's national icon
the Koala this here is Titan and he's
marking his territory though this scent
plant because it's been putting with the
girls he plays his cards right today
could be his lucky day koalas are
normally quiet creatures but things are
about to change
Titan has to go in and excite the
females only then will keep a pool know
if any of them are ready to mate they
want to collect Titan sperm at the
moment he's really taking his time so we
know she's in she's definitely carrying
them he's interesting so can Liam get
the girls going
[Music]
with young hot-blooded Liam displaying
the enclosure reaches fever pitch head
bobbing bellowing and scent-marking
[Music]
[Applause]
meanwhile Titan just sits back one of
the females is ready but sorry Liam its
Titans this is artificial insemination
so his sperm has to be collected Steve
Johnston has pioneered this technique
this is where the science comes into it
well it's not too much science it's
basically just flipping some spam from
the Nile and getting in between em so
you're the awful person at the crucial
moment snips in there absolutely the
koalas seem to have no idea their
nuptials are about to be interrupted
Steve gets in between them to collect
Titan sperm in a device made part of you
from the top end of a cricket bat he
thinks completely that it's a female
that he's doing the job on thanks coming
here we go well wound it he's just
getting a very normal mating behavior in
koalas I mean and that will stabilize
the femur will he inseminate sir
so that's perfectly normal
[Music]
it's finally time to artificially
inseminate one of the females called
beta the process is painless the sperm
is simply squirted into beta if the AI
is a success in 35 days time a tiny baby
koala will make its way into beaters
pouch the team will be one step closer
to helping rare marsupials like grim pea